---
layout: page
title: Create a Custom Reactor
tagline:
---

In this guide, we will demonstrate how to create an Abaco reactor from scratch.
Abaco reactors react to events such as the successful upload of a file or the
completion of an Agave job. Abaco reactors enable automation by automatically,
rather than manually, triggering in response to defined events. If you are
deciding between building an Agave app or an Abaco reactor consider the
following rule of thumb: If the computation requires less than one minute and
minimal resources, use an Abaco reactor. If the computation requires more than
one minute and / or considerable resources, use an Agave app.

For an introduction to the Abaco CLI, please see
[Abaco CLI Basics](04.abaco_cli.md).


<br>
#### Requirements

The Abaco command line tools needed to create a custom reactor are included with
the [SD2E CLI](01.install_cli.md). To make sure you have the most current
version, run:
```
% sd2e info --upgrade
```

The following are also requirements:

1. [Docker CE](https://www.docker.com/community-edition)
2. [Docker Hub Account](https://hub.docker.com/)
3. [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/)
4. getopts (installed by default on macOS High Sierra)


<br>
#### Initialize a new reactor

To initialize a new Abaco reactor in the simplest form, run the following
command:
```
% abaco init -n my-project
```

After executing this command, you will see a new directory with the project
(reactor) name. This directory contains all the required files to deploy an
Abaco reactor:
```
my-project/
├── Dockerfile
├── TEMPLATE.md
├── config.yml
├── message.json
├── reactor.py
├── reactor.rc
├── requirements.txt
└── secrets.json.sample
```

To build a functional reactor, modify the files as follows:

<br>
##### `Dockerfile`
The only mandatory line is the `FROM` statement, which, by default, is:
```
FROM sd2e/reactor-base:python2
```
This docker image comes pre-loaded with the python libraries that contain the
reactor functions. If you need to add any additional code, dependencies, etc.,
to your reactor, this is the time for that. Other possible base images are
described on the [base images page](06.base_images.md).

<br>
##### `TEMPLATE.md`
This is a short description of the files necessary for creating a reactor.

<br>
##### `config.yml`
This file contains configurations to be passed into the reactor. For example,
if the file has the following contents:
```
---
myVar: value1
myCategory:
  var1: value2
```
Then you will be able to retrieve values from an [`AttrDict`][] named '`settings`'
in your `reactor.py`. For example, the above values could be called as:
```
> import reactors as Reactor
> Reactor.settings.get('myVar')
value1
> stuff = Reactor.settings.get('myCategory')
> stuff.get('var1')
value2
```

<br>
##### `message.json`
This is the message template. To activate automatic validation of incoming JSON
messages to your reactor, add a valid [JSON schema][] (draft 4+) by extending
the Dockerfile:
```
ADD message.json /
```
At present, the JSON schema *must* be named `AbacoMessage`


<br>
##### `reactor.py`
This file is where the code for your main function can be found. If you need to
add other python files located in this same directory, extend the `Dockerfile`
with:
```
ADD mycode.py /
```
An example of a functional reactor could be:
```python2
import reactors as Reactor
import json

def main():
    md = Reactor.context.message_dict
    Reactor.logger.info(json.dumps(md))

if __name__ == '__main__':
    main()
```
This reactor simply logs the message that is sent to it. Examples of more
interesting reactors with useful functions can be found [here](06.links.md).

<br>
##### `reactor.rc`
The `reactor.rc` file contains important deployment configurations. The Abaco
CLI reads directly from this file when deploying a reactor to the Docker
registry and to the Abaco API.
```
# Reactor mandatory settings
REACTOR_NAME=my-project

# Reactor optional settings
# REACTOR_DESCRIPTION=
# REACTOR_WORKERS=1
# REACTOR_PRIVILEGED=0
# REACTOR_STATELESS=0
# REACTOR_USE_UID=0
# REACTOR_ALIAS=aka_reactor_demo

# Docker settings
DOCKER_HUB_ORG=your_docker_registory_uname
DOCKER_IMAGE_TAG=my-project
DOCKER_IMAGE_VERSION=0.1
```
Ensure the `REACTOR_NAME` is set correctly to `my-project` (or whatever you
would like to call it), and add your Docker Hub username to the `DOCKER_HUB_ORG`
near the bottom.

<br>
##### `requirements.txt`
This is a standard Python requirements file, and is empty by default. If you
have additional Python dependencies beyond those that ship with the Reactors
base image, add them here and they will be included and built (if possible) at
`deploy` time or when you manually run `docker build`.

<br>
##### `secrets.json`
If you create a file called `secrets.json` (from the example file called
`secrets.json.sample`) it will never be committed to a git
repository or included in a Docker image build, but `abaco deploy` uses it to
populate the default environment variables for the Reactor. Values placed in
this file are *NOT THAT SECRET* since they can be discovered by other users if
you choose to share your Reactor.

<br>
##### Ignore files
Also in this directory are preconfigured `.dockerignore` and `.gitignore` files
that are tailored towards preventing you from including sensitive information
and/or build cruft in the Docker images and git repositories used in creating
Reactors.

<br>
#### Deploy your reactor

Before deploying your reactor, first make sure to refresh the Agave token:
```
% auth-tokens-refresh
```

Once you have added the necessary information to the files listed above, you can
deploy your reactor by executing the `abaco deploy` command from the top level
of your reactor project directory:
```
% abaco deploy
Sending build context to Docker daemon  11.78kB
Step 1/1 : FROM sd2e/reactor-base:python2
# Executing 4 build triggers
 ---> Using cache
 ---> Using cache
 ---> Using cache
 ---> Using cache
 ---> 1b7f8366e05f
Successfully built 1b7f8366e05f
Successfully tagged username/my-project:0.1
The push refers to repository [docker.io/username/my-project]
45080ac9c614: Layer already exists
8a5132998025: Layer already exists
...
aca233ed29c3: Layer already exists
e5d2f035d7a4: Layer already exists
0.1: digest: sha256:997c7f59sa5aaaa07f2f4w1dwdbc1f0ar4frf3fbq7qb1d5dcdb0f2f42056d5f1e1a size: 6987
[INFO] Pausing to let Docker Hub register that the repo has been pushed
Successfully deployed Actor with ID: wmoxRE7rEqGPQ
```

This process pushes a Docker image to the location specified in your `reactor.rc`
file, and it deploys an Abaco reactor object into the API. If all goes well, you
will find a "Success" message at the end, along with the reactor ID (as a
13-character alphanumerical string). To run this particular reactor, send it a
message with any contents:
```
% export MESSAGE='{ "myVar":"value1" }'
% abaco submit -m "${MESSAGE}" wmoxRE7rEqGPQ
kWmayogY84RPA
{
  "myVar": "value1"
}
% abaco logs wmoxRE7rEqGPQ kWmayogY84RPA
Logs for execution kWmayogY84RPA:                                                            
[INFO] 2018-05-22T03:06:00Z: Returning a logger set to level: INFO for module: wmoxRE7rEqGPQ
[INFO] 2018-05-22T03:06:00Z: {"myVar": "value1"}                                            
```

More descriptions on the various Abaco commands can be found in the
[Abaco CLI introduction](04.abaco_cli.md).


---
Return to the [API Documentation Overview](../index.md)
